BHAGAVAD GITA - SAMPLE EXCERPTS

Chapter 2: Sankhya Yoga (The Yoga of Knowledge)

Verse 2.47:
You have a right to perform your prescribed duty, but not to the fruits of action. Never consider yourself the cause of the results of your activities, and never be attached to not doing your duty.

Verse 2.20:
For the soul there is neither birth nor death. It is not slain when the body is slain.

Verse 2.62-63:
While contemplating the objects of the senses, a person develops attachment for them, and from such attachment lust develops, and from lust anger arises. From anger, complete delusion arises, and from delusion bewilderment of memory. When memory is bewildered, intelligence is lost, and when intelligence is lost one falls down again into the material pool.

Chapter 4: Jnana Yoga (The Yoga of Knowledge)

Verse 4.7-8:
Whenever and wherever there is a decline in religious practice, O descendant of Bharata, and a predominant rise of irreligion—at that time I descend Myself. To deliver the pious and to annihilate the miscreants, as well as to reestablish the principles of religion, I Myself appear, millennium after millennium.

Chapter 6: Dhyana Yoga (The Yoga of Meditation)

Verse 6.5:
One must deliver himself with the help of his mind, and not degrade himself. The mind is the friend of the conditioned soul, and his enemy as well.

Chapter 9: Raja-Vidya Yoga (The Yoga of Royal Knowledge)

Verse 9.22:
But those who always worship Me with exclusive devotion, meditating on My transcendental form—to them I carry what they lack, and I preserve what they have.

Chapter 18: Moksha Yoga (The Yoga of Liberation)

Verse 18.66:
Abandon all varieties of religion and just surrender unto Me. I shall deliver you from all sinful reactions. Do not fear.

CONCEPTS EXPLAINED:

DHARMA:
Dharma refers to righteous living and moral law. It encompasses duty, natural law, and the path of righteousness that sustains the universe and society.

KARMA:
Karma is the law of cause and effect governing all actions. Every action produces consequences that shape our future experiences and spiritual evolution.

ATMAN:
The Atman is the eternal, unchanging soul or self that exists beyond the physical body and mind. It is the true essence of every being.

MOKSHA:
Moksha is liberation from the cycle of birth and death, representing the ultimate spiritual goal of union with the Divine.

OM (AUM):
Om is the sacred sound representing the cosmic vibration from which all creation emerges. It symbolizes the unity of all existence. 